.TH CROSSPOST 1 "November 2024" "crosspost 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
crosspost \- post simultaneously to Mastodon and Bluesky
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crosspost
.RI [ TEXT ]
.PP
.B crosspost
.B --setup
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B crosspost
is a command-line tool for cross-posting the same message to multiple Mastodon and Bluesky accounts at once.
.PP
The tool reads account configuration from a
.BR config.toml
file and posts the provided text to all enabled accounts on both platforms.
Credentials are stored securely in
.B macOS Keychain
\- no passwords are stored in configuration files.
.PP
On first run, if no config file exists, an example will be automatically created at
.I ~/.config/crosspost/config.toml
for you to edit.
.PP
URLs in the post text are automatically detected and formatted as rich text facets for Bluesky compatibility.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I TEXT
The post content to share. Required for posting (not needed with
.BR \-\-setup ).
Surround in quotes if it contains spaces or URLs.
.PP
Example:
.nf
crosspost "Check out my new article! https://example.com/blog"
.fi
.SH CONFIGURATION
.B crosspost
reads a
.BR config.toml
file from one of these locations (in order of preference):
.IP 1.
Current working directory
.IP 2.
.I ~/.config/crosspost/config.toml
.IP 3.
Auto-created at
.I ~/.config/crosspost/config.toml
on first run if neither location exists
.PP
The configuration file must contain account definitions for Mastodon and/or Bluesky.
Refer to the
.BR config.toml.example
template for the full syntax.
.SS First Run
On first run without a config file,
.B crosspost
will automatically:
.IP 1.
Create the
.I ~/.config/crosspost/
directory (if it doesn't exist)
.IP 2.
Generate
.I config.toml
with example accounts and settings
.IP 3.
Print a message asking you to edit the file with your credentials
.PP
After editing the config with your tokens and passwords, simply run
.B crosspost
again to start posting.
.SS Basic Configuration Example
Config file contains only account definitions (no credentials):
.nf
[mastodon]
enabled = true

[[mastodon.accounts]]
name = "primary"
instance = "https://mastodon.social"
keychain_key = "mastodon_primary"

[bluesky]
enabled = true

[[bluesky.accounts]]
name = "main"
handle = "yourhandle.bsky.social"
keychain_key = "bluesky_main"
.fi
.PP
Credentials are stored in Keychain under the service name
.BR "crosspost"
(customizable with the optional
.IR keychain_service
config key).
.SS Keychain Setup
Use the
.B --setup
command to interactively enter credentials:
.nf
crosspost --setup
.fi
.PP
This prompts you for each account's credential and stores them securely in Keychain.
.PP
Alternatively, credentials can be provided on first run:
.nf
crosspost "Your post text"
.fi
.PP
If any credential is missing from Keychain, you'll be prompted to enter it (hidden input).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-setup
Set up Keychain credentials interactively. Prompts for all configured account credentials and stores them securely. Does not post anything.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All posts were sent successfully (or skipped if platforms were disabled), or
.B --setup
completed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Configuration error (missing or invalid config.toml), posting failed, or required text argument not provided.
.SH EXAMPLES
Set up Keychain credentials:
.nf
crosspost --setup
.fi
.PP
Post to all configured accounts:
.nf
crosspost "Hello world!"
.fi
.PP
Post a link:
.nf
crosspost "Check out https://example.com"
.fi
.PP
Post with special characters and spaces:
.nf
crosspost "I love Mastodon & Bluesky! 🎉"
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I config.toml
Main configuration file containing account definitions and credentials.
Located in the current directory or at
.I ~/.config/crosspost/config.toml
(XDG-compliant).
Auto-created on first run if not found.
Should be kept in
.IR .gitignore
to prevent accidental credential leaks.
.TP
.I config.toml.example
Template configuration file with examples (shipped with package).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Environment variables can be used to store sensitive credentials. If a credential is defined as
.IR { env = "VAR_NAME" }
in the config file, the value will be read from the environment variable
.IR VAR_NAME
at runtime.
.SH CREDENTIALS
.SS Mastodon
Requires an API token with permission to post. Generate one at your Mastodon instance's
.I Settings > Development > New Application
page.
.SS Bluesky
Requires an
.I app password
(not your account password). Generate one at:
.nf
https://bsky.app/settings/app-passwords
.fi
.SH NOTES
.PP
.B Bluesky URL Formatting:
URLs are automatically detected using regex pattern
.I https?://\eS+
and converted to rich text facets for proper rendering on Bluesky.
.PP
.B Multiple Accounts:
You can configure multiple accounts for each platform. All enabled accounts will receive the same post.
.PP
.B Disabling Platforms:
Set
.I enabled = false
in the config file to temporarily disable posting to a specific platform:
.nf
[mastodon]
enabled = false

[bluesky]
enabled = true
.fi
.SH BUGS
If a post contains the same URL multiple times, only the first occurrence will be properly formatted as a Bluesky facet. This is a known limitation.
.PP
For bug reports and feature requests, visit:
.nf
https://github.com/j-klawson/crosspost/issues
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Keith Lawson
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR config.toml (5)
.PP
For more information and examples, see the project README at:
.nf
https://github.com/j-klawson/crosspost
.fi
